README.md, before:

<p align="center">
<img src="./public/apple-icon-180x180.png" alt="mantine pokemon">
</p>

# ❤️‍🔥 Refine + Mantine v7

Refine's Mantine integration [only supports Mantine v5](https://refine.dev/docs/ui-integrations/mantine/introduction). This template build on top of [Mantine v7 + Vite template](https://github.com/mantinedev/vite-template), adding:

- Headless Refine v4 integration (based on [this tutorial](https://github.com/refinedev/refine/tree/master/examples/tutorial-headless)).
- TailwindCSS v4.
- Sample resources of `blog-post` and `category`.
- i18n.
- Notification provider.
- `Dockerfile` to deploy via Nginx.

![](./public/screenshots/home.png)

![](./public/screenshots/login.png)

## Features

This template comes with the following features:

- [PostCSS](https://postcss.org/) with [mantine-postcss-preset](https://mantine.dev/styles/postcss-preset)
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/)
- [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/) setup with [React Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/intro)
- ESLint setup with [eslint-config-mantine](https://github.com/mantinedev/eslint-config-mantine)

## npm scripts

## Build and dev scripts

- `dev` – start development server
- `build` – build production version of the app
- `preview` – locally preview production build

### Testing scripts

- `typecheck` – checks TypeScript types
- `lint` – runs ESLint
- `prettier:check` – checks files with Prettier
- `vitest` – runs vitest tests
- `vitest:watch` – starts vitest watch
- `test` – runs `vitest`, `prettier:check`, `lint` and `typecheck` scripts

### Other scripts

- `up:mantine` – upgrade Mantine's packages
- `up:refine` – upgrade Refine's packages
- `storybook` – starts storybook dev server
- `storybook:build` – build production storybook bundle to `storybook-static`
- `prettier:write` – formats all files with Prettier

## Development

### Theming and styling

Mantine@7 offers several approaches of theming and styling. [Learn here](https://mantine.dev/getting-started/#learn).

Mantine@7 also offers a system of CSS variables that you can use them in your stylesheets. To get CSS variables autocomplete and PostCSS support, [follow here to set up your VS Code](https://mantine.dev/getting-started/#set-up-vs-code).

Last but not least, you have full power of TailwindCSS v4 with dark mode support out of the box.

### Change favicon

Favicon and markup for favicon are generated by [favicon-generator](https://www.favicon-generator.org/). To tweak your own image, generate and replace those files:

```sh
public/android-icon-36x36.png
public/android-icon-48x48.png
public/android-icon-72x72.png
public/android-icon-96x96.png
public/android-icon-144x144.png
public/android-icon-192x192.png
public/apple-icon-57x57.png
public/apple-icon-60x60.png
public/apple-icon-72x72.png
public/apple-icon-76x76.png
public/apple-icon-114x114.png
public/apple-icon-120x120.png
public/apple-icon-144x144.png
public/apple-icon-152x152.png
public/apple-icon-180x180.png
public/apple-icon-precomposed.png
public/apple-icon.png
public/browserconfig.xml
public/favicon-16x16.png
public/favicon-32x32.png
public/favicon-96x96.png
public/favicon.ico
public/manifest.json
public/ms-icon-70x70.png
public/ms-icon-144x144.png
public/ms-icon-150x150.png
public/ms-icon-310x310.png
```

## TL;DR: Why use TailwindCSS alongside Mantine?

**Mantine v7 is leaner, faster, and more focused than ever** — dropping CSS-in-JS and encouraging a simpler styling approach. It gives you logic-rich, accessible components out of the box, and a solid theme system to build on.

But for many developers, that’s only half the picture.

> TailwindCSS fills the gap with lightning-fast layout, responsive utilities, gradients, motion, and fine-grained visual control — all without leaving your markup.

Instead of competing, **Mantine and Tailwind complement each other beautifully**:

- Use **Mantine** for structure, accessibility, and interactive components.
- Use **TailwindCSS** for layout, styling, and animation.
- And optionally, reach for motion plugins like `tailwindcss-motion` to enhance UI transitions — no `Transition` components or CSS keyframes required.

The result?
A frontend stack that feels **composable, expressive, and fast to work with**.

### 🧱 Layout & Spacing

| Feature                    | Mantine v7                          | TailwindCSS                             |
|----------------------------|--------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|
| Horizontal layout          | `<Group />`                         | `flex items-center space-x-2`            |
| Vertical stack             | `<Stack />`                         | `flex flex-col space-y-4`                |
| Responsive layout          | Manual media queries in CSS         | `sm:`, `md:`, `lg:` responsive prefixes  |
| Custom spacing             | Theme-based spacing tokens          | `p-4`, `gap-6`, `m-2` directly in JSX    |
| Grid system                | `<Grid />`, `<Col />`               | `grid grid-cols-3 gap-4`                 |

> 💡 For layout + spacing, Tailwind is faster and more expressive — especially for prototyping.

## 🧾 Typography & Text

| Feature                       | Mantine v7                      | TailwindCSS                                |
|-------------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|
| Headings (`<Title />`)        | Props like `order={2}`           | `text-2xl font-bold`                        |
| Body text (`<Text />`)        | Theme-based tokens               | `text-base text-gray-700`                  |
| Longform / markdown content   | `TypographyStylesProvider`       | `@tailwind/typography` → `prose` classes   |

> 🧠 Tailwind gives you **atomic control**, Mantine gives you **semantic abstraction** — mix as needed.

## 🎨 Styling & Gradients

| Feature                     | Mantine v7                                | TailwindCSS                                   |
|-----------------------------|--------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| Gradient backgrounds        | `style={{ backgroundImage: ... }}`         | `bg-gradient-to-r from-pink-500 to-purple-500` |
| Gradient text               | `<Text variant="gradient" />`              | `bg-clip-text text-transparent`               |
| Hover/focus states          | Use `classNames` + custom CSS              | `hover:bg-blue-600 focus:ring`                |
| Rounded corners             | `radius="md"` or CSS Modules               | `rounded-md`, `rounded-full`                  |
| Shadow/elevation            | Props or CSS Modules                       | `shadow`, `shadow-lg`, `drop-shadow-sm`       |

> 🎯 Tailwind gives you **instant visual feedback**, Mantine gives you **theme safety**.

### 📱 Responsive Design

| Feature                     | Mantine v7                              | TailwindCSS                          |
|-----------------------------|------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| Breakpoints                 | `theme.breakpoints.md`, etc.             | `sm:`, `md:`, `lg:` utilities        |
| Responsive spacing          | Requires manual CSS                     | `p-4 md:p-8 lg:p-12`                 |
| Show/hide on screen sizes   | Requires logic or `MediaQuery`          | `hidden md:block`, `lg:flex`         |
| Adaptive typography         | Manual overrides                        | `text-sm md:text-base lg:text-lg`    |

> ⚡ Tailwind makes responsiveness a breeze — especially when you don’t want to open a CSS file.

### 🌀 Animation & Motion

| Feature                        | Mantine v7                            | Tailwind + Plugins                          |
|--------------------------------|----------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|
| Basic transitions              | `<Transition />`, `<Collapse />`      | `transition`, `duration-300`, `ease-in-out` |
| Preset animations              | N/A (manual setup)                    | `tailwindcss-animate`, `tailwindcss-motion` |
| Declarative motion             | JSX-wrapped components                | Utility classes + data attributes           |
| Auto list transitions          | N/A                                    | `auto-animate` plugin                        |

> 🌀 With motion plugins, Tailwind gives you **drop-in animation** — no JS required.

### ✅ When to Use What

| Use Case                     | Best Tool       |
|------------------------------|------------------|
| Complex components (modal, popover, drawer) | **Mantine**  |
| Layout, grid, spacing, flex                | **Tailwind** |
| Fast prototyping or tweaking spacing       | **Tailwind** |
| Form handling & validation                 | **Mantine**  |
| Typography, hover states, gradients        | **Tailwind** |
| Transitions and motion                     | **Tailwind** (with plugins) |

Commit message:

📝 docs on tailwind premade ui

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
<img src="./public/apple-icon-180x180.png" alt="mantine pokemon">
</p>

# ❤️‍🔥 Refine + Mantine v7

Refine's Mantine integration [only supports Mantine v5](https://refine.dev/docs/ui-integrations/mantine/introduction). This template build on top of [Mantine v7 + Vite template](https://github.com/mantinedev/vite-template), adding:

- Headless Refine v4 integration (based on [this tutorial](https://github.com/refinedev/refine/tree/master/examples/tutorial-headless)).
- TailwindCSS v4.
- Sample resources of `blog-post` and `category`.
- i18n.
- Notification provider.
- `Dockerfile` to deploy via Nginx.

![](./public/screenshots/home.png)

![](./public/screenshots/login.png)

## Features

This template comes with the following features:

- [PostCSS](https://postcss.org/) with [mantine-postcss-preset](https://mantine.dev/styles/postcss-preset)
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/)
- [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/) setup with [React Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/intro)
- ESLint setup with [eslint-config-mantine](https://github.com/mantinedev/eslint-config-mantine)

## npm scripts

## Build and dev scripts

- `dev` – start development server
- `build` – build production version of the app
- `preview` – locally preview production build

### Testing scripts

- `typecheck` – checks TypeScript types
- `lint` – runs ESLint
- `prettier:check` – checks files with Prettier
- `vitest` – runs vitest tests
- `vitest:watch` – starts vitest watch
- `test` – runs `vitest`, `prettier:check`, `lint` and `typecheck` scripts

### Other scripts

- `up:mantine` – upgrade Mantine's packages
- `up:refine` – upgrade Refine's packages
- `storybook` – starts storybook dev server
- `storybook:build` – build production storybook bundle to `storybook-static`
- `prettier:write` – formats all files with Prettier

## Development

### Theming and styling

Mantine@7 offers several approaches of theming and styling. [Learn here](https://mantine.dev/getting-started/#learn).

Mantine@7 also offers a system of CSS variables that you can use them in your stylesheets. To get CSS variables autocomplete and PostCSS support, [follow here to set up your VS Code](https://mantine.dev/getting-started/#set-up-vs-code).

Last but not least, you have full power of TailwindCSS v4 with dark mode support out of the box.

### Change favicon

Favicon and markup for favicon are generated by [favicon-generator](https://www.favicon-generator.org/). To tweak your own image, generate and replace those files:

```sh
public/android-icon-36x36.png
public/android-icon-48x48.png
public/android-icon-72x72.png
public/android-icon-96x96.png
public/android-icon-144x144.png
public/android-icon-192x192.png
public/apple-icon-57x57.png
public/apple-icon-60x60.png
public/apple-icon-72x72.png
public/apple-icon-76x76.png
public/apple-icon-114x114.png
public/apple-icon-120x120.png
public/apple-icon-144x144.png
public/apple-icon-152x152.png
public/apple-icon-180x180.png
public/apple-icon-precomposed.png
public/apple-icon.png
public/browserconfig.xml
public/favicon-16x16.png
public/favicon-32x32.png
public/favicon-96x96.png
public/favicon.ico
public/manifest.json
public/ms-icon-70x70.png
public/ms-icon-144x144.png
public/ms-icon-150x150.png
public/ms-icon-310x310.png
```

## TL;DR: Why use TailwindCSS alongside Mantine?

**Mantine v7 is leaner, faster, and more focused than ever** — dropping CSS-in-JS and encouraging a simpler styling approach. It gives you logic-rich, accessible components out of the box, and a solid theme system to build on.

But for many developers, that’s only half the picture.

> TailwindCSS fills the gap with lightning-fast layout, responsive utilities, gradients, motion, and fine-grained visual control — all without leaving your markup.

Instead of competing, **Mantine and Tailwind complement each other beautifully**:

- Use **Mantine** for structure, accessibility, and interactive components.
- Use **TailwindCSS** for layout, styling, and animation.
- And optionally, reach for motion plugins like `tailwindcss-motion` to enhance UI transitions — no `Transition` components or CSS keyframes required.

The result?
A frontend stack that feels **composable, expressive, and fast to work with**.

### 🧱 Layout & Spacing

| Feature                    | Mantine v7                          | TailwindCSS                             |
|----------------------------|--------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|
| Horizontal layout          | `<Group />`                         | `flex items-center space-x-2`            |
| Vertical stack             | `<Stack />`                         | `flex flex-col space-y-4`                |
| Responsive layout          | Manual media queries in CSS         | `sm:`, `md:`, `lg:` responsive prefixes  |
| Custom spacing             | Theme-based spacing tokens          | `p-4`, `gap-6`, `m-2` directly in JSX    |
| Grid system                | `<Grid />`, `<Col />`               | `grid grid-cols-3 gap-4`                 |

> 💡 For layout + spacing, Tailwind is faster and more expressive — especially for prototyping.

## 🧾 Typography & Text

| Feature                       | Mantine v7                      | TailwindCSS                                |
|-------------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|
| Headings (`<Title />`)        | Props like `order={2}`           | `text-2xl font-bold`                        |
| Body text (`<Text />`)        | Theme-based tokens               | `text-base text-gray-700`                  |
| Longform / markdown content   | `TypographyStylesProvider`       | `@tailwind/typography` → `prose` classes   |

> 🧠 Tailwind gives you **atomic control**, Mantine gives you **semantic abstraction** — mix as needed.

## 🎨 Styling & Gradients

| Feature                     | Mantine v7                                | TailwindCSS                                   |
|-----------------------------|--------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| Gradient backgrounds        | `style={{ backgroundImage: ... }}`         | `bg-gradient-to-r from-pink-500 to-purple-500` |
| Gradient text               | `<Text variant="gradient" />`              | `bg-clip-text text-transparent`               |
| Hover/focus states          | Use `classNames` + custom CSS              | `hover:bg-blue-600 focus:ring`                |
| Rounded corners             | `radius="md"` or CSS Modules               | `rounded-md`, `rounded-full`                  |
| Shadow/elevation            | Props or CSS Modules                       | `shadow`, `shadow-lg`, `drop-shadow-sm`       |

> 🎯 Tailwind gives you **instant visual feedback**, Mantine gives you **theme safety**.

### 📱 Responsive Design

| Feature                     | Mantine v7                              | TailwindCSS                          |
|-----------------------------|------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| Breakpoints                 | `theme.breakpoints.md`, etc.             | `sm:`, `md:`, `lg:` utilities        |
| Responsive spacing          | Requires manual CSS                     | `p-4 md:p-8 lg:p-12`                 |
| Show/hide on screen sizes   | Requires logic or `MediaQuery`          | `hidden md:block`, `lg:flex`         |
| Adaptive typography         | Manual overrides                        | `text-sm md:text-base lg:text-lg`    |

> ⚡ Tailwind makes responsiveness a breeze — especially when you don’t want to open a CSS file.

### 🌀 Animation & Motion

| Feature                        | Mantine v7                            | Tailwind + Plugins                          |
|--------------------------------|----------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|
| Basic transitions              | `<Transition />`, `<Collapse />`      | `transition`, `duration-300`, `ease-in-out` |
| Preset animations              | N/A (manual setup)                    | `tailwindcss-animate`, `tailwindcss-motion` |

> 🌀 With motion plugins, Tailwind gives you **drop-in animation** — no JS required.

Nice! Those are also solid Tailwind-based UI libraries — here’s an **updated version** of the ecosystem section with **those new libraries included**, keeping it concise and clear:

---

### 🌐 The Tailwind Ecosystem: Copy-Paste UI That Complements Mantine

When it comes to layout, dashboards, and presentational UI, **Tailwind’s ecosystem delivers fast, composable building blocks**. Here are some **free or freemium** Tailwind UI libraries offering ready-to-use components:

| Library                        | What You Get                                     |
|-------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| [**Preline UI**](https://preline.co)     | Layouts, navbars, modals, responsive grids      |
| [**HyperUI**](https://www.hyperui.dev)   | E-commerce, auth pages, clean sections          |
| [**Meraki UI**](https://merakiui.com)    | Dashboards, cards, headers, dark mode support   |
| [**Flowbite**](https://flowbite.com)     | Rich component set with optional JS (e.g. tabs) |
| [**Flyon UI**](http://flyonui.com)       | Clean components with minimalist design         |
| [**Sailboat UI**](https://sailboatui.com)| Buttons, forms, cards, alerts — copy and paste  |

> 🧠 Use these libraries to scaffold pages fast, and plug in **Mantine components** where logic or interactivity is needed.

No JS lock-in. No setup friction. Just **drop in the HTML** and you’re off.

### ✅ When to Use What

| Use Case                     | Best Tool       |
|------------------------------|------------------|
| Complex components (modal, popover, drawer) | **Mantine**  |
| Layout, grid, spacing, flex                | **Tailwind** |
| Fast prototyping or tweaking spacing       | **Tailwind** |
| Form handling & validation                 | **Mantine**  |
| Typography, hover states, gradients        | **Tailwind** |
| Transitions and motion                     | **Tailwind** (with plugins) |
| Marketing pages, hero sections, UI blocks | **Tailwind UI Libraries** (e.g. Preline, HyperUI, Sailboat), [ui.mantine.dev](https://ui.mantine.dev/) |
| Dashboards & scaffolding layouts    | **Tailwind UI Libraries** (e.g. Meraki, Flowbite, Flyon) |
